ALIGNMENT FILE ( *.A3.* )

In each iteration of the training, and for each sentence pair in the
training set, the best alignment (viterbi alignment) is written to the
alignment file (if the dump parameters are set accordingly). The
alignment file is named prob_table.An.i, where n is the model number
({1,2, 2to3, 3 or 4}), and i is the iteration number. The format of
the alignments file is illustrated in the following sample:

# Sentence pair (1)
il s' agit de la même société qui a changé de propriétaires
NULL ({ }) UNK ({ }) UNK ({ }) ( ({ }) this ({ 4 11 }) is ({ }) the ({ }) same ({ 6 }) agency ({ }) which ({ 8 }) has ({ }) undergone ({ 1 2 3 7 9 10 12 }) a ({ }) change ({ 5 }) of ({ }) UNK ({ })
# Sentence pair (2)
UNK UNK , le propriétaire , dit que cela s' est produit si rapidement qu' il n' en connaît pas la cause exacte
NULL ({ 4 }) UNK ({ 1 2 }) UNK ({ }) , ({ 3 }) the ({ }) owner ({ 5 22 23 }) , ({ 6 }) says ({ 7 8 }) it ({ }) happened ({ 10 11 12 }) so ({ 13 }) fast ({ 14 19 }) he ({ 16 }) is ({ }) not ({ 20 }) sure ({ 15 17 }) what ({ }) went ({ 18 21 }) wrong ({ 9 })

The alignment file is represented by three lines for each sentence
pair. The first line is a label that can be used, e.g., as a caption
for alignment visualization tools.  It contains information about the
sentence sequential number in the training corpus, sentence lengths,
and alignment probability. The second line is the target sentence, the
third line is the source sentence. Each token in the source sentence
is followed by a set of zero or more numbers. These numbers represent
the positions of the target words to which this source word is
connected, according to the alignment.